# Quick Introduce Laravel 
Laravel is framework php for web app. In 2022, 1,547,319 websites that are Laravel Customers. We know of 730,966 live websites using Laravel and an additional 816,353 sites that used Laravel applicable. Laravel is not high performance framework but it's one of the most popular web frameworks in the world. Laravel has the advantage of creating fast, full-featured code, which is a great source of keywords for web developers.

#  Introduce DissectLaravel doc
There's tons of laravel documentation all over the place, it floods every web page and every discussion. However, I did not find any document that is deep and extensive enough, the knowledge system of laravel. As you know, from a technical perspective, when you read the doc and use it, you partially understand it. But you really get insight when you read the source code, understand how it's implemented, how it's designed. The source code will provide and reflect the software as it is, pure and straightforward. This is the most in-depth and intuitive approach to opensource. Of course it is not easy and takes a lot of resources. When you understand the source code, you will learn a lot from that opensource, you will debug problems very quickly without finding answers or unclear. You have a systematic thinking about the product, able to solve and fix very difficult bugs. This document provides a general analysis of the theory, the keyword laravel implementation, it is the most general, it is true for web technology in general, regardless of the language. I will try to analyze the laravel source code on the mind of web technology these days. I believe it is a useful reference for web developers, as well as devops who want an overview of the web app system.

# Who need doc
This document is for anyone passionate about web app, passionate about php, laravel for all level. If you don't like php, approach it by keyword, but if you love php, enjoy and relax with it. Hope it brings value and helps someone improves level, or simply solve your problem.

# License
All copyrights of the material belong to me. You can read, use, share for many people but no commercial rights or anything related business about it. I want to share it for free to the community

# Contacts
gmail: minhnghia.pham.it@gmail.com

# Quick Look (HowTo): Scenarios - Hands-on LAB
- [Overview and layout sourcecode Laravel](https://thisislink.com)


# Table of Contents
- [How To Understand Big Project](#HowToUnderstandBigProject)
- [Preview Laravel Layout](#LayoutLaravel)
    - [Php and index.php ](#PhpAndIndexPhp)
    - [index.php in laravel ](#IndexPhpLaravel)
    - [Public folder in laravel ](#PublicFolderIndexPhpLaravel)
    - [When save file in public folder ](#WhenSaveFileInPublicFolder)
    - [Preview layout laravel](#LayoutLaravel)

## How To Understand Big Project <a name="HowToUnderstandBigProject"></a>
A large project always has a lot of lines of code, with laravel 7.X being around 400 000 lines of code. So how do you approach it? My approach is top down thinking, approach from layout code ==> autoload ==> module ==> detail. One question is do you need to know the entire line of code of an opensource to understand it? The answer is no. Any module or source has main components and options. The main component represents the main feature of the project. You only need to understand the whole main component, most of the options are based on the main component. That's how I and this document approach the Laravel source. I know that's the same way most programmers choose to approach a very large project.

## Php And Index.php <a name="PhpAndIndexPhp"></a>
In any programming language, there is usually a startpoint to start a project. Print c, go, c++, it's main() function, print php, it's index.php

## Index.php in Laravel <a name="IndexPhpLaravel"></a>
The vesion I use is laravel 7.5, this is source framework https://github.com/laravel/framework/tree/7.x.
This is source index.php https://github.com/laravel/laravel/blob/7.x/public/index.php

Inline 24, you see code:
"""require __DIR__.'/../vendor/autoload.php';"""

Print php, use compose control version. In line 24, laravel require autoload of project. Laravel will load all Class Loader, including Laravel core and third editor packet.


InLine 38:
"""$app = require_once __DIR__.'/../bootstrap/app.php';"""
Laravel mapping and bilding interface of laravel with application.


print line 52 to 60:

"""$kernel = $app->make(Illuminate\Contracts\Http\Kernel::class);

$response = $kernel->handle(
$request = Illuminate\Http\Request::capture()
);

$response->send();

$kernel->terminate($request, $response);"""

Laravel make one instance of Kernel Laravel, Laravel get incoming request from webserver, push to endpoint and response request. Laravel terminate index.php, and terminate the process handle request generated by the webserver


## Public folder in laravel <a name="IndexPhpLaravel"></a>
Why laravel has public folder? Why is index.php in there. Benefits and security of public folders. <br/>

Let's refer to a simple config of apache2 vs laravel:

"""<VirtualHost *:80>
ServerAdmin admin@test.com
ServerName test.com
DocumentRoot /home/anonymous/Desktop/Laravel/test/src/public

    <Directory/home/anonymous/Desktop/Laravel/test/src/public >
        Options -Indexes +FollowSymLinks +MultiViews
        AllowOverride All
        Require all granted
        <FilesMatch \.php$>
            # Change this "proxy:unix:/path/to/fpm.socket"
            # if using a Unix socket
            #SetHandler "proxy:fcgi://127.0.0.1:9000"
        </FilesMatch>
    </Directory>

    ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/myapp.com-error.log

    # Possible values ​​include: debug, info, notice, warn, error, crit,
    # alert, emerg.
    LogLevel warn
    CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/myapp.com-access.log combined

First, Laravel creates a public folder to contain the system's public files or resources, SymLinks. +FollowSymLinks Config folder public allows webserver FollowSymLinks, "+MultiViews" : A MultiViews search is where the server does an implicit filename pattern match,and choose from amongst the results , “AllowOverride” which allows you to override some Apache settings via a . htaccess file you can place in a director. This config allows the webserver to do a lot of things with the public folder, it allows the webserver to access the files in the public folder and return it to the browser. Therefore, only files that are public will be placed in the public folder.

## When save file in public folder <a name="WhenSaveFileInPublicFolder"></a>
With the public file used for all users, you should save it in the public folder: css, js, images... </br>
The files are specific to the request or the specific session, not stored in the public folder. Let's imagine with user1, request 1 you create 1.txt file, you save that file in public folder. File 1.txt is created at server handle request 1, called server 1. at Request 2, user1 get 1.xlsl, but loadbalance is not forward to server1, but is forwarded to server2. Clearly, server2 don't have the file exe1.xlsl, confused. For this problem, use the same remote server as S3, don't use Laravel's public folder
